

	PERSPECTIVE DOCUMENT
Visions Of CommunismPERSPECTIVES ON AN IDEOLOGYA VERY SHORT DOCUMENTATION ON COMMUNISM
By Chandan Mandal and Hrisikesh Roy19-5-2024
 
CONTENT
•	Chandan’s perspective: Actuality of Marx.
•	Hrisikesh's perspective: Division of three classes; upper, middle, and lower.
•	Endnote.
•	Authorities. 
Chandan’s Perspective: Actuality of Marx
“Verily, we always see the struggle between us and we often wanted to create the solution or remove it permanently and then we 

remember we are also in control of someone else; maybe the ruler, the higher and the stronger, and we had to stop the process of 

justice and cure there.”
As Karl Marx said, 'The specter of communism is haunting Europe,' it does but now in the whole world. Marx was not to create any 

violence in society but rather to make eternal equality, but man is greedy, even though they are poor they see the evil rich and 

capitalists as their inspiration and dream. Does it calm the peace in society? 'No,' money is the real manipulator and everyone is a 

slave of it.
The capitalists indeed are the richest and they want to tear the sky while they never care about the decent human, who works hard for 

them.
And then finally Marx came up with the proper manifesto.
Everything is fine in the manifesto but the implementation by man is never perfect and communism fails, as man is greedy; 

communism fails.
However, through the works of Marx on communism, we see that he didn't want anyone to be the leader of someone, anyone, and 

even of the whole society — I also believe it is not that possible for this manipulated society to be without any leader and so Vladimir 

Lenin became the very first one.
To make everything stable and onto Marxism, he started leading and here indeed a leader was needed for the implementation of 

communism. Thus, the leadership on communism by Lenin came to be known as Leninism. And as I said man is greedy and they 

misused communism and disseminated hate.
As communism made its aesthetics in the particular period; still it is famous, Marx would be proud if he were alive. Communism 

means; workers, revolution, justice, reformation the united mind of societies, and even non-violence but some so-called beings 

misused it extremely so the people started hating it, and Marx would feel desperate if he were alive.
AND IT WAS SAID, ‘THE GOD THAT FAILED.’
He didn't but we did.
How can those cruel leaders apologize to the whole society for what they did to communism and not deny the fact that ‘Marx came to 

unite us socially.’
The Industrial Revolution changed everything, monarchism fell and the new system rose but economic inequality came to its peak 

and social justice was given by seeing an individual's economic status. Even if Marxism fails in this society still its existence is there 

as the law; the law of equality.
"Marxists don't fear capitalists, but capitalists do fear Marxists."

 
Hrishikesh's perspective: Division of three classes; Upper, middle, and lower.
The division of big people i.e. rich people and small people in society is an important thing. The norms and pace of society are always 

driven by the rich and powerful, and the middle class tries to follow and emulate them. The class division of society is not only by 

money and wealth but money and wealth are the catalysts of important class distinctions in society. Society has been run by powerful 

people since time immemorial, in the past there were kings landlords, and nobles, today big capitalists, leaders, multinational 

companies, etc. Decide how it is easier for them to make money and laws accordingly.
Its impact is not only limited to the fundamental structure of a country or region but also spreads to social norms and social circles. In 

the beginning, I have said the division of big and small, but in any change in society or state, the middle class is the first to be affected 

by it. A very critical class economically is the middle class which aims to enter the upper class. The small classes are independent in 

respect, they are preoccupied with the thought of clothing and struggle for survival due to their class position and predicament, and 

they are not bothered by class struggle or class transition.
The art practice of the middle class is based on the upper class because the middle class does not have the money, wealth, time, 

opportunity, or freedom like the upper class, so they produce economic opulence by imitating or in many cases assimilating the rich 

class. In addition, the middle-class industry is very popular because of the desire to separate itself from the small people or lower 

class, another big problem of the middle-class industry is that its main audience is not the middle class, because in most cases the 

middle class does not do art for a hobby, there is a matter livelihood in it, so the main middle-class industry audience is huge.
The art and life of the lower class are therefore very different from that of the middle and upper classes, lacking the seriousness of 

the upper class, the carelessness of the middle class, and small-scale industry developed independently. The art of miniatures does 

not attempt to show undue depth, it is fascinating and makes art of all the small and seemingly insignificant moments of life. Yet due 

to the influence of the upper class, in society, the small and the middle class always try to enter the upper class. 
“Communism was an attempt to break this trend and create a new social system.”

 
Endnote
From the perspective of “Actuality of Marx,” it is said that what Marx saw in society and wrote in his works. While implemented 

everything messed up and still the ruler and leader system existed, even though communism and the misuse of communism became 

at its peak as man is full of greed. On the other hand the perspective of the "Division of three classes; Upper, middle and lower,” is 

viewed as how communism wanted to break the social trend of ruler, leader, and human lords, it is also viewed from the perspective 

that how class division works in society and how man is dependent on each other living in society.

 
Authorities
Researched by Hrisikesh Roy and Chandan Mandal.
